Add ideas to structure the Conclusions section (#20)
greenelab/manubot-gpt-manuscript: content/05.conclusions.md

# Conclusions

> We implemented AI-based revision models into the publishing infrastructure provided by Manubot.

Author: ```suggestion
We implemented AI-based revision models into the publishing infrastructure provided by Manubot [@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007128; @arxiv:2005.14165].
```

While humans have written most manuscripts, the process is time-consuming, and academic writing can be challenging to read.

> We sought to add technology to clarify academic writing into a publishing platform.

Author: Not sure if the word "clarify" is clear here.

```suggestion
We sought to incorporate technology into an existing publishing platform to assist researchers in the task of communicating their findings to the community.
```

We implemented a workflow that authors can trigger to suggest revisions.
It uses GPT-3 models through the OpenAI API and generates a pull request of revisions that authors can review.
We provide default parameters for GPT-3 models that work well for our use cases across different sections and manuscripts.
Users can customize the revision by selecting only specific sections or adjusting the model's behavior to fit their needs and budget.

> We found that many paragraphs were subjectively improved.

Author: ```suggestion
Although evaluating a revision tool is subjective, we found that many paragraphs were improved.
```

Parts of the text that were difficult for the AI model to revise highlighted paragraphs that also could stymie human readers.

We designed section-specific prompts to guide the GPT-3-based revision of the text.
We were surprised that, in one Methods section, the model revised a human-overlooked error in referencing a symbol from an equation.

> Opportunities exist to further improve the underlying AI-based revisions.

Author: ```suggestion
Opportunities exist to further improve the underlying AI-based revisions, for instance, for abstracts, which was the most challenging section for the model.
```

> Continuing to improve prompts, using few-shot learning @doi:10.1145/3386252, or fine-tuning the model with additional academic writing focused on particularly challenging sections provide avenues for improvement.

Author: ```suggestion
Opportunities exist to improve the underlying AI-based revisions, such as further refining prompts using few-shot learning [@doi:10.1145/3386252] or fine-tuning the model with an additional corpus of academic writing focused on particularly challenging sections.
```

> Fine-tuning using preprint-publication pairs [@doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.3001470] may provide a strategy to detection sections or phrases likely to be changed during peer review.

Author: ```suggestion
Fine-tuning using preprint-publication pairs [@doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.3001470] may provide a strategy to detect sections or phrases likely to be changed during peer review.
```

> Our approach used GPT-3, which lacks a contextual thread between queries.

Author: ```suggestion
Our approach used GPT-3 to process each paragraph of the text, although it lacks a contextual thread between queries and this mainly affected the revision of the Results and Methods sections.
```

> Using chatbots that retain context, such as OpenAI's ChatGPT [@url:https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt/], could enable the revision of paragraphs while considering previously processed text.

Author: ```suggestion
Using chatbots that retain context, such as OpenAI's ChatGPT [@url:https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt], could enable the revision of individual paragraphs while considering previously processed text.
```

> Once an official API becomes available for ChatGPT, we plan to implement an additional workflow using this strategy.

Author: ```suggestion
Once an official API becomes available for ChatGPT, we plan to update our workflow to support this strategy.
```

> There are many potential models, including the BLOOM [@arxiv:2211.05100], GLM [@arxiv:2210.02414], or Meta's OPT [@arxiv:2205.01068] ones, which are open though lacking the highly usable OpenAI API.

Author: ```suggestion
There is an increasing number of open models that could also be used, including BLOOM [@arxiv:2211.05100], GLM [@arxiv:2210.02414], or Meta's OPT [@arxiv:2205.01068], though lacking the highly usable OpenAI API.
```

Even with these limitations, we found models captured the main ideas and generated a revision that often communicated the intended meaning more clearly and concisely.
It is important to note, however, that our assessment of performance in case studies was necessarily subjective, as there could be, for example, writing styles that might not be widely shared across researchers.

Using these types of tools for scientific authoring is controversial.
Several questions arise concerning the novelty or ownership of the text generated by these models.

> The program chairs of the upcoming International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML) prohibit *"papers that include text generated from a large-scale language model (LLM)"* [@url:https://icml.cc/Conferences/2023/llm-policy], while editing tools such as for grammar and spelling correction are allowed.

Author: ```suggestion
For instance, the program chairs of the upcoming International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML) prohibit *"papers that include text generated from a large-scale language model (LLM)"* [@url:https://icml.cc/Conferences/2023/llm-policy], although editing tools for grammar and spelling correction are allowed.
```

> We focus on revising an *existing* text written by a human author.

Author: ```suggestion
However, we focus on revising an *existing* text written by a human author.
```

> In this way, it is not different from other automatic tools such as Grammarly [@url:https://www.grammarly.com/].

Author: ```suggestion
In this way, it is not different from other automatic tools such as Grammarly [@url:https://www.grammarly.com].
```

While there are concerns, there is also significant opportunity.

> Our work lays the foundation for a future where academic manuscripts are constructed by both human and machine contributions.

Author: ```suggestion
While there are concerns, there are also significant opportunities, and our work lays the foundation for a future where both human and machine contributions construct academic manuscripts.
```

Academic writing follows a certain style.

> The writing process is a time-consuming task that requires a significant amount of effort in thinking *how* to communicate a result or finding that was already obtained.

Author: ```suggestion
Scientific articles need to follow a specific style, making the writing process a time-consuming task that requires a significant amount of effort in thinking about *how* to communicate a result or finding that was already obtained.
```

> The increasing ability of machines to improve a scholarly text means that humans can focus on *what* to communicate to other peers.
> A future in which scientists are not limited by their ability to communicate in a very specific style but instead only by their ideas and ability to perform experiments that reveal underlying organizing principles of ourselves and our environment could be a more equitable and productive future for research.

Author: Trying to split the long sentence, and avoid repeating the word "future."

```suggestion
The increasing ability of machines to improve a scholarly text means that humans can focus more on *what* to communicate to others instead of writing with a particular style.
A future in which scientists are only limited by their ideas and ability to perform experiments that reveal underlying organizing principles of ourselves and our environment could lead to a more equitable and productive future for research.
```

# Conclusions

> We implemented AI-based revision models into the publishing infrastructure provided by Manubot.

Reviewer: ref manubot / gpt3

For this, we implemented a workflow in GitHub Actions that can be manually triggered by human authors to revise a manuscript.
The tool employs the OpenAI API for access to the GPT-3 models used for the revision, and when done, it generates a pull request that can be reviewed by authors before merging into the manuscript.
We provide default parameters for GPT-3 models that we found to work well for our use cases across different sections and manuscripts.
The tool also provides users with different ways to customize the revision, from selecting specific sections to adjusting the model's behavior to fit their needs and budget.
We found that, in general, the tool generated acceptable suggestions for most sections of the manuscripts, with most paragraphs being significantly improved and others that needed minimal human review.
Even parts of the text that the tool struggle to revise proved to be useful for the authors to identify paragraphs that would challenge human readers.

We designed section-specific prompts to guide the AI-based revision of the text in a way that is consistent with the section.

> To test this, we used three manuscripts across all the standard sections of an article in the life sciences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test this, we performed case studies with three manuscripts across all the standard sections of an article in the life sciences.
```

These sections represented a wide range of complexity levels for a revision task: from abstracts that need to briefly describe the research questions and proposed solutions, to the Methods section that focuses in very specific technical details, sometimes needing a particular format (such as equations).

> Overall, the tool provided very good suggestions that significantly improved the sentence structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The models were able to capture the main ideas in the original text and generate a revision that was easier to read and follow, yet communicating the original meaning more clearly and concisely.

> In paragraphs from the Methods section, the model even understood the mathematical symbols in an equation and fixed references to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In paragraphs from the Methods section, the model corrected mathematical symbols in an equation and fixed references to them.
```

> We found that the most challenging section to revise was the abstract, which basically needs to describe the state-of-the-art in a field, the importance of the research questions, and briefly communicate how the proposed methods or analyses address them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We found that the most challenging section to revise was the abstract, which needs to describe the state-of-the-art in a field, the importance of the research questions, and briefly communicate how the proposed methods or analyses address them.
```

This could be addressed either by designing better prompts (using a "few-shot learning" approach [@doi:10.1145/3386252]), which would be the fastest way, or by fine-tuning the pre-trained models using a large corpus of abstracts, which would potentially produce higher-quality results.

> We believe that the AI-based revision tool, although with some errors and minor issues, performed very well on the rest of the sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> As showed in the use cases, the improvements suggested by the model surpassed the mistakes that it eventually made, which can be easily fixed by a human after reviewing the suggestions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this stage of development, we expect that human review and adjustment after AI-based revisions is the most appropriate workflow for most manuscripts.
```

> It is important to note, however, that our assessment of the quality of the revisions was necessarily subjective, as there could be, for example, writing styles that might not be widely shared across researchers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> We tried to overcome this by selecting manuscripts of our own to more objectively assess the revisions, but we acknowledge that this is an important limitation of our work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Only time and a more extensive use of the tool will tell if an automated, AI-based revision approach for scientific literature will become a standard practice in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Our AI-based tool uses a paragraph-by-paragraph approach to revision, meaning that the model is applied to each paragraph of the manuscript *independently*, without considering the context of the paragraph.

> In addition to producing acceptable results, this divide-and-conquer approach has advantages, such as the ability to process long texts without strongly depending context length of the models.

Reviewer: I don't fully understand this - can you clarify? You're saying this can work with shorter queries so you can use more than just the most complex models?

It was clear from our results, however, that depriving the tool from processing the context of the paragraph had some drawbacks.

> This was especially true in the Results and Methods sections, where the tool often added details that were present later in the text, or explained again an acronym that was previously defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This was especially true in the Results and Methods sections, where the tool often added details that were present later in the text or redefined acronyms.
```

One way to address this issue would be to use chatbots, such as OpenAI's ChatGPT [@url:https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt/], that could process the entire manuscript using the same paragraph-by-paragraph approach while still considering the previously processed text.
This would mimic the way a human reads a manuscript, inherit the benefits of processing one paragraph at a time, and potentially produce higher-quality revisions.

> In this preliminary work we focused on OpenAI's models mainly because of the simplicy in accessing the API.

Reviewer: I think this should be combined with the above and shortened - this is really a long conclusions section.

This is a desirable property for our use case, as it allows the authors to generate multiple revisions of the same section and then choose the prefered one.
Our tool, however, allows to easily control this randomness of the model by adjusting parameters such as the sampling temperature or use other techniques such as top-p (nucleus) sampling.
Other parameters could be useful in improving the model outcomes, such as the `logit_bias` parameter, which allows to change the likelihood of specific tokens for a completion.
An example would be to ban of the use of tokens related to references to figures or tables when we know these are not present in the paragraph to be revised.
Another option in improving the revision outcomes would be to fine-tune the models using a specific corpus of text.
This would allow to train even section-specific models that could be used to improve the revision of a particular section without the need to design a complex prompt (such as our prompt for the Methods section).

This work lays the foundation for a future where academic manuscripts are constructed by a process that incorporates both human and machine authors.

> We believe that our AI-based revision tool, based on large language models, is a step towards a more efficient and effective way of writing scientific manuscripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An AI-based revision tool, using large language models, is a step towards a more efficient and effective way of writing scientific manuscripts.
```
You haven't made the points on inclusion that I've seen yet. I think _that_ would be a good last paragraph. Opening up who can participate in the communication could be an AI-enabled win for equity.

We acknowledge that using these models in scientific authoring is controversial.

> Several questions arise concerning the novelty or ownership of the text generated by these models.

Reviewer: I think you're re-stating some stuff here that has already been stated. I think the licensing stuff should go to your caveats above. I think using this paragraph to envision a future where people's ability to participate in science is limited by their ideas and ability to perform experiments, not by their ability to communicate in a very specific style, is perhaps a better path.

Author: Yes, sorry, there were many issues with the initial text, it was a very early draft that I couldn't read again before sending it to you. I preferred having early feedback from you.

We implemented AI-based models into publishing infrastructure.
While most manuscripts have been written by humans, the process is time consuming and academic writing can be difficult to parse.
We sought to develop a technology that academics could use to make their writing more understandable without changing the fundamental meaning.
This work lays the foundation for a future where academic manuscripts are constructed by a process that incorporates both human and machine authors.

We found that, in general, the tool generated reasonable suggestions for most sections of the manuscripts, with paragraph that were greatly improved and others that needed minimal human review.
We also found, though, that for some paragraph the revision was not good enough, and in some cases it even made the text worse.
This was particularly true for short paragraphs and some in the the Methods sections when mathematical expressions were present.

> Abstracts:

Reviewer: I think that going into detail for the sections is _way_ too much for a conclusions section. I'd recommend skipping these portions.

  - remember that the models are stochastic (meaning that we can always run it again).
  - for the phenoplier abstract, the revision was not really great (the AI model removed too much background information).
    - the user of the tool, in these cases, might want to run it again to obtain another revision.
    - for abstract, maybe we need to improve the prompts to say something like "keep more background information".

Introductions:

  - really good for both manuscripts
  - in phenoplier, the models did not keep the format of citations for one paragraph, although this can be easily fixed by a human.
    - the other paragraph that did not converge was a large one; this could be an indication that is not easy to understand and it should be split into smaller paragraphs.
    - therefore, the fact that the tool cannot process a paragraph of text can also provide insight about the quality of the writing.

Methods:
  - the model not only improved the text, but also fixed references to wrong mathematical symbols.

> One way to fix the problem of context is to use chatbots like ChatGPT, which could enable the same paragraph-by-paragraph approach to revision that we presented here, but with higher quality revisions by considering the context (just as if it were reading it).

Reviewer: I think this is important to note.

  - This approach (chatGPT, etc) has also the advantage of being independent of the context length of the models.
  - Here, mention this kind of models in general again, besides ChatGPT, like AnthropicAI's Claude model (a competitor of ChatGPT): https://twitter.com/goodside/status/1611556749726605312

> Edits vs completion endpoints:

Reviewer: This is probably a sentence at most, perhaps in a single paragraph combined with the above points.

  - although they are based on the same Davinci models, the completion endpoint was better
  - however, edits is still in beta, and might the preferred endpoint in the future (however, the best one would be the chatbot interface when available)
  - Curie models were clearly inferior, but this could also be explained by the complexity of our prompts; maybe simplier prompts would work better.
  - We show that the Davinci models are capable of revising a complex manuscript, and that any potential issue could be more related to the complexity of the prompts than to the models themselves (prompt design).

> - the models offers a wide variety of parameters to tune, for instance, "logit_bias" could be helpful to improve completion in the methods section (equations), which allows to provide a bias for specific tokens (maybe if we add "$$", the model would deal better with equations).

Reviewer: This point feels to detailed.

> - other models in the future will certainly improve the AI-assisted revision of scientific manuscripts

Reviewer: This and the sentence below seem good to use, potentially combined into one paragraph about how things can be optimized w/ the portions above.

It might be interesting to point out the bioRxiv XML / PMC OA corpus thing that @danich1 did linking preprint/published papers -> maybe that's one way to fine tune... what would this paragraph look like in the peer reviewed paper?

Author: I didn't have time to include this, sorry! Definitely worth considering in the next round of review of this section.

- another alternative is fine-tuning of models: https://beta.openai.com/docs/guides/fine-tuning
    - maybe using biorxiv or another corpus to train on specific sections of papers

- although Manubot manuscript are written in Markdown format, our prompts are independent of this markup language, and should work with other tools like Latex.

About the stochastic nature of the models:

>   - the stochastic nature of the models mimic a human author

Reviewer: It feels like you're writing/structuring this in a drill down way

```
General points
________
\             /
  \         /
   \      /
    \   /
specific things
```
I think it's best to write the conclusions section the other way - start specific, share the limitations/future directions, and then in the final paragraph or two imagine what the broad societal implications could be

Author: Oh, yes, these points did not have an order. I didn't mention that in the PR description, sorry.
